7. Definitions

7.1 Related persons
Related persons are:
− Relatives (spouse, parents, children, parents-in-law, grandparents 
and brothers and sisters);
− Life partners including their parents and children;
− Carers of non-travelling minors or relatives in need of care;
− Very close friends with whom there is very close contact.
7.2 Europe
Europe includes all countries on the European continent and the 
Mediterranean, plus the Canary Islands, Madeira and those countries 
bordering the Mediterranean and outside Europe. The eastern border 
to the north of Turkey encompasses Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia 
and the Ural mountain range.
7.3 Switzerland
The territory of Switzerland for the purpose of insurance cover 
includes Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein.
7.4 Natural hazards
Natural hazards are losses stemming from natural events, such as 
high water, flooding, storm (winds of at least 75 km/h), hail, avalanche, 
snow pressure, rockfall, rockslide or landslide. Losses from 
earthquake or volcanic eruption do not count as natural disasters.
7.5 Monetary value
Monetary value covers cash, credit cards, securities, savings 
accounts, precious metals (inventories, bars or merchandise), coins, 
medals, loose precious stones and pearls.
7.6 Journey
A journey is a stay of over one day outside the person's normal place 
of residence or a stay of shorter duration at a location at least 30 km 
from the person's legal residence discounting routes to work. The 
maximum duration of a journey for the purposes of these GTC is a 
total of 122 days. Duration is limited to 365 days for annual insurance.
7.7 Travel companies
Travel companies (tour operators, travel agents, airline companies, 
car hire companies, hotels, course organisers etc.) include all 
companies involved in providing a travel-related service to the insured
person on a contractual basis.
7.8 Public conveyance or means of transport
Public conveyance or means of transport include any means of 
transport running regularly according to a timetable and requiring a 
valid ticket. Taxis and hire cars do not count as public means of 
transport.
7.9 Breakdown
A breakdown means any sudden and unforeseen failure of the insured 
vehicle caused by an electrical or mechanical defect that makes it 
impossible to continue the journey, or that means the continued 
journey is no longer permitted by law. The following are equivalent to a 
breakdown: Tyre defect, fuel shortage, vehicle key locked inside the 
vehicle, or flat battery. Loss of or damage to the car key or using the 
wrong type of fuel does not qualify as a breakdown and is not insured.
7.10 Personal accident
An accident is the sudden, unintended detrimental outcome of an 
unusual external factor on the human body.
AWP P&C S.A., Saint-Ouen (Paris), Wallisellen Branch (Switzerland), Richtiplatz 1, 8304 Wallisellen, page 5 of 7
Tel. +41 44 283 32 22, Fax +41 44 283 33 83, info.ch@allianz.com, www.allianz-travel.ch
7.11 Motor vehicle accident
An accident is any damage to the insured motor vehicle resulting from 
a sudden and violent external event making any further use thereof 
impossible or illegal. That includes in particular events resulting from 
impact, such as collision, overturning, crashing, subsidence and 
immersion.
7.12 Serious consequences resulting from illness/accident
Illness or the consequences of an accident are considered severe if 
they result in a temporary or unlimited inability to work or the inability 
to travel.
7.13 Natural catastrophe
Extremely serious natural event directly causing at the location 
affected by the event, the death of a significant number of people and 
devastating material damage to public infrastructure.
7.14 Mobile devices
Electronic devices for mobile, network-independent data, language 
and picture communication and navigation, which are suitable for 
mobile use without causing any significant physical exertion due to 
their size and weight. Mobile telephones, tablets and laptops count as 
mobile devices for the purpose of these GTC