4. Insured events

4.1 Illness, accident, death, pregnancy
4.1.1 Serious illness, serious accident, pregnancy complications or the 
death of one of the following persons, provided the event in question 
occurred subsequent to the booking or the conclusion of insurance:
− The insured person;
− A closely related person who booked the same event and 
cancelled;
− An accompanying person on the journey who is closely related to 
the insured person;
− The deputy at work, provided the insured person's presence is 
indispensable.
If a number of insured persons have booked the same journey, it can 
be cancelled for a maximum of six persons if an accompanying 
insured person cancels the journey due to one of the above events.
4.1.2 For mental illness insurance cover only applies, if
− a psychiatrist confirms an inability to work and travel and
− the inability to work is documented by a certificate of absence 
supplied by the employer.
4.1.3 Chronic illness is only covered by the insurance if the trip has to be 
cancelled through a medically documented, unexpected, acute 
deterioration. Cover is contingent on the person being able to travel at 
time of booking or taking out the insurance and demonstrably being in 
a stable state of health.
4.1.4 Insurance cover only applies in the case of pregnancy if the pregnancy 
occurred after the trip was booked or the insurance taken out and the 
date of the return is after the 24th week, or if the pregnancy occurred 
subsequent to booking the trip or concluding the insurance and a 
vaccination was required for the destination, which would pose a risk 
to the unborn child.
4.2 Damage to property at the place of residence
If the insured person's property is seriously damaged at their 
permanent residence due to theft, fire or natural disaster and the 
insured person has to be present at home as a result.
AWP P&C S.A., Saint-Ouen (Paris), Wallisellen Branch (Switzerland), Richtiplatz 1, 8304 Wallisellen, page 6 of 7
Tel. +41 44 283 32 22, Fax +41 44 283 33 83, info.ch@allianz.com, www.allianz-travel.ch
4.3 Delay and absence of means of transport for the outward journey
If the booked journey could not be started due to the delay or absence 
of the means of public transport used to travel to the starting point 
arranged for the journey.
4.4 Absence of vehicle for the outward journey
If the private vehicle or taxi used to travel directly to the starting point 
arranged for the journey becomes unusable due to an accident or 
breakdown during the journey. Problems with keys and fuel are not 
insured.
4.5 Strikes
If strikes (excluding strikes by the travel company and/or its service 
providers) make the journey impossible.
4.6 Danger at the destination
If war, terror attacks or unrest of any kind at the destination place the 
insured person’s life in danger and if an official Swiss entity (Federal 
Department of Foreign Affairs) advises against travel to the destination 
in question; if natural catastrophes at the destination place the insured 
person's life in danger.
4.7 Unemployment/unexpected assumption of a job
If the insured person has unexpectedly taken up employment within 
the 30 days prior to departure or if the unexpected assumption of 
employment occurs during the time of the trip, or if the insured person, 
through no fault of his/her own, has his/her employment terminated 
within the 30 days prior to departure.
4.8 Official summons
If the insured person is unexpectedly summoned as a witness or juror 
in court. The court date must be during the time of the trip.
4.9 Theft of passport or ID card
If the insured person's passport or identity card is stolen just before 
the trip and, as a result, the insured person is unable to travel. Note: 
there are emergency passport offices at some airports.