General terms and conditions of insurance of Allianz Travel


Secure Trip Classic
Edition January 2022
Customer information and General terms and conditions of insurance


Secure Trip Classic


Dear customer


You will find below the General terms and conditions of insurance (GTC) for our Secure Trip Classic annual insurance.


The GTC and your insurance policy are authoritative for determining your individual entitlement to benefits in the event of a claim.


Allianz Travel
  

Olaf Nink CEO


Customer information under the Swiss Insurance Contract Act (ICA)


The following customer information provides a concise overview of the insurer's identity and the material content of the insurance contract (Article 3 of the Swiss Insurance Contract Act – ICA). Only the insurance policy and General terms and conditions of insurance (GTC) are authoritative for the content and scope of the rights and obligations derived from the insurance contract.


Who is the insurer?
________________
Flight delay
* Assumption of the additional costs incurred for a hotel, rebooking or tele- phone calls if a connecting flight is missed due to a delay of at least three hours for which the first airline is solely responsible.
Pupil and student protection
* Assumption of the cancellation costs owed by the insured person in the event of cancellation of the booked trip as a result of a failure to move up a year, resitting of a failed examination or another event that is listed as insured in the GTC. In the event of unexpected cancellation during the stay abroad of study courses, work experience, research or seminars originally confirmed in writing or another event that is listed as insured in the GTC, the extra return journey will be organised and the related costs assumed instead of the benefits referred to above. This cover only applies to persons up to their 26th birthday.


Which persons are insured?


  



In the case of insurance policies with a term of one year (annual insurance policies), the insurance policy states whether the insurance cover applies to the policyholder alone (single person) or to the policyholder and the persons living with him/her in the same household as well as their minor children not living in the same household (family insurance policy), provided these are accompanying an insured person and their permanent place of residence is in Switzerland. The insured persons are in each case essentially set out in the insurance policy and the General terms and conditions of insurance (GTC).


Temporal and geographical scope of the insurance cover


  



The insurance cover basically applies worldwide during the insurance period. Local restrictions in the special provisions for the individual insurance compo- nents as well as economic or trade sanctions or embargoes of the United Na- tions, the European Union, the United States of America or Switzerland that contradict the insurance cover remain reserved.


What are the main exclusions?


  



  





The insurer is AWP P&C S.A., Saint-Ouen (Paris), Wallisellen Branch (Switzerland), hereinafter referred to as Allianz Travel. The company headquarters are at Richtiplatz 1, 8304 Wallisellen.


Who is the policyholder?  




The policyholder is the person designated as such in the insurance policy. What risks are insured and what is the scope of the cover?  


The insured risks under the respective contract, scope of the cover and the cover restrictions are set out in the insurance policy and General terms and conditions of insurance (GTC). The following is a summary of the various in- surance components offered, provided for ease of understanding:
Cancellation costs
   * Assumption of the cancellation costs owed by the insured person if the booked trip is cancelled as a result of serious illness, a serious accident, death or another event that is listed as insured in the GTC. If the trip starts late due to an insured event, the additional costs of the trip will be assumed and any missed part of the stay will be covered (max. up to the equivalent to the cancellation costs) instead of the benefits referred to above.
Medical assistance
   * Organisation and assumption of the costs of transfer to the nearest hospital, repatriation under medical supervision to a hospital near the place of resi- dence, the extra return journey without medical accompaniment to the place of residence, supervision of any accompanying minors or a hospital visit for another person as a result of serious illness, a serious accident, complica- tions of pregnancy or the unexpected worsening of a chronic illness.
Travel assistance
   * Organisation and assumption of the costs of the extra return journey, tem- porary return journey or onward journey for the insured person as a result of serious illness, a serious accident, death, complications of pregnancy or the unexpected worsening of a chronic illness of an accompanying person, a non-travelling person who is closely related to the insured person or the dep- uty at work or as a result of another insured event listed in the GTC.
Assistance in the event of death
   * Organisation and assumption of the costs of cremation outside the country of residence and return of the coffin or urn to the insured person’s last place of residence. In the event of local burial, the accommodation costs of ac- companying persons will be assumed instead of the benefits referred to above.
Search and rescue costs
   * Assumption of search and rescue costs abroad if during the journey the insured person is deemed to be missing or needs to be rescued from a physical emergency.
________________
The following list contains only the most important insurance cover exclusions. Further exclusions are contained in the exclusionary clauses «Non-insured events and benefits» of the General terms and conditions of insurance as well as the ICA:
All insurance components
* An event is not insured if it has already occurred when the policy is taken out, the trip is booked or the pre-booked service begins or if its occurrence was foreseeable for the insured person when the policy was taken out, the trip was booked or the pre-booked service began.
* Events are not insured if the insured person has triggered them in the fol- lowing ways:
   * abuse of alcohol, drugs or medicines;
   * suicide or attempted suicide;
   * participation in strikes or unrest;
   * participation in races, training sessions or other types of driving on race or training tracks;
   * participation in hazardous activities whereby the insured person knowingly exposes himself or herself to danger, such as diving to depths of more than 40 m, canyoning, bungee jumping or paragliding as well as climbing, mountaineering, mountain tours at altitudes of 5,000 m or higher or par- ticipation in expeditions etc.;
   * negligent or premeditated actions/or failure to act;
   * committing or attempting to commit crimes or offences.
* The following events and their consequences are not insured: war, terror attacks, any type of unrest, natural catastrophes and incidents involving atomic, biological or chemical substances.
* The following events and their consequences are not insured: epidemics and pandemics, except as expressly covered under section II A: Cancella- tion costs, section II B: Medical assistance and section II C: Travel assis- tance.
* Events in countries or regions to which the Swiss authorities (Federal Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA, Federal Office of Public Health FOPH or World Health Organization WHO) have already advised against travel at the time of booking the trip are not insured.
* The consequences of events associated with official instructions, e.g. airport/airspace closures, roadblocks, quarantine measures (except as expressly covered under section II A: Cancellation costs and section II C: Travel assistance), police measures, decrees etc., are not insured.
Cancellation costs
* In particular, no insurance cover applies in the event of «poor healing», which therefore includes illnesses or the consequences of an accident, an operation or a medical intervention that had already occurred by the time the trip was booked or the insurance was taken out and have failed to heal by the date of the trip.
* No insurance cover applies to cancellation of trips by the travel company, official instructions (except as expressly covered under section II A: Cancel- lation costs) or an insured event not ascertained and documented by a doc- tor directly at the time of occurrence.
   * No insurance cover applies if the cancellation, depending on the circum- stances, arises from a psychological reaction to a health hazard, act of ter- ror, aircraft accident or natural catastrophe or due to fear of civil unrest, acts of war, acts of terror or aviophobia (fear of flying).
Medical assistance
   * In particular, there is no entitlement to benefits if the Allianz Travel emer- gency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance.
   * No insurance cover applies to outpatient or inpatient treatment or to the costs of meals, lost working time or other financial losses.
   * No insurance cover applies if the insured person has travelled against ad- vice in connection with an epidemic/pandemic of their home country’s gov- ernment or of local authority at their trip destination.
Travel assistance
   * In particular, there is no entitlement to benefits if the Allianz Travel emer- gency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance.
   * No insurance cover applies if the travel company responsible fails to provide contractually agreed services or fails to do so in full.
   * No insurance cover applies to the costs of meals, lost working time or other financial losses.
   * No insurance cover applies if the insured person has travelled against ad- vice in connection with an epidemic/pandemic of their home country’s gov- ernment or of local authority at their trip destination.
Assistance in the event of death
   * In particular, there is no entitlement to benefits if the Allianz Travel emer- gency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance.
Flight delay
   * In particular, there is no entitlement to benefits if the airline fails to provide contractually agreed services or fails to do so in full.
   * There is no entitlement to benefits if the insured person is actually responsible for the delay.
Pupil and student protection
   * No insurance cover applies if the travel company responsible fails to provide contractually agreed services or fails to do so in full.
   * There is no entitlement to benefits if the Allianz Travel emergency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance in the event of the trip being terminated.


Which obligations are incumbent on the policyholder and insured persons?  




The following list contains only the main obligations. Other obligations are set out in the General terms and conditions of insurance and the ICA:
All insurance components
   * In any event, the insured person is obliged to do everything to mitigate the loss and help resolve the claim; for losses caused by illness or accident, the insured person must ensure that the attending doctors are released from their duty of confidentiality vis-à-vis Allianz Travel.
   * If the entitled person is in breach of his/her obligations, Allianz Travel can withhold or reduce the benefits.
Cancellation costs
   * Once the insured event has occurred, the pre-booked service must be can- celled immediately with the travel company or accommodation/course pro- vider and then Allianz Travel must be notified of the claim event in writing and sent any documents required (see GTC section II A 6) (for contact ad- dress, see GTC section I 13).
Medical assistance / Travel assistance / Assistance in the event of death
   * Once the insured event has occurred, the Allianz Travel emergency call cen- tre must be notified immediately and its agreement obtained for any assis- tance measures or assumption of associated costs. The Allianz Travel emer- gency call centre is available around the clock: telephone +41 44 202 00 00, fax +41 44 283 33 33.
Search and rescue costs / Flight delay
   * Once the insured event has occurred, Allianz Travel must be notified of the claim event immediately in writing and sent the required documents listed in the special provisions for the individual insurance components (for contact address, see GTC section I 13).
Pupil and student protection
   * Cancellation: Once the insured event has occurred, the pre-booked service must be cancelled immediately with the travel company or accommoda- tion/course provider and then Allianz Travel must be notified in writing of the claim event and sent any documents required (see GTC section II G 6) (for contact address, see GTC section I 13).
________________
* Termination of a trip: Once the insured event has occurred, the Allianz Travel emergency call centre must be notified immediately and its agreement obtained for any assistance measures or assumption of associated costs. The Allianz Travel emergency call centre is available around the clock: telephone +41 44 202 00 00, fax +41 44 283 33 33.


How much is the premium?


  



The amount of the premium depends on the risks insured and stipulated level of cover. The amount of the premium is defined with the application and results from the insurance policy.


When does the insurance begin and end?


  



The beginning and end of the insurance are defined in the application and detailed in the insurance policy. Insurance policies with a one-year term (annual insurance policies) are automatically extended by a further year at the end of the one-year contract term, provided neither the policyholder nor Allianz Travel issue notice in text form (e.g. letter, e-mail) at the end of the term subject to a three-month notice period.
Insurance contracts can be terminated early by giving notice, particularly in the following instances:
* following a claim event resulting in the provision of benefits by the insurer, provided the notice given by the insurer occurred no later than the time of the payout or resolution of the case (e.g. assistance/legal protection) or, by the policyholder, no later than 14 days after learning of the payment or resolution of the case;
* if the insurer changes the premiums. In this case, the insurer must receive the policyholder's termination notice no later than the last day prior to the premium amendment coming into effect;
* termination by the insurer in the event of insurance fraud.
This list contains only the main causes for termination. There are others set out in the General terms and conditions of insurance and the ICA.


Right of revocation


  



The policyholder may revoke the contract within a period of 14 days from the application to conclude the contract or the declaration of acceptance thereof by notifying the insurer in text form (e.g. letter, e-mail). The right of revocation is excluded for provisional cover commitments and contracts with a duration of less than one month.


How does Allianz Travel treat data?


  



When processing personal data essential to the transaction of insurance business, Allianz Travel observes the Swiss Data Protection Act (FADP). If necessary, Allianz Travel will use the claims form to obtain the necessary approval from the insured person to process the data.
The personal data processed by Allianz Travel includes data relating to the conclusion of the contract and the policy/claims handling. The information processed mainly comprises the policyholder's or insured person’s details from the insurance application and the claims statement. In the interests of all policyholders, data may also be exchanged with previous insurers and reinsurers within and outside Switzerland. Allianz Travel also processes personal data in connection with product enhancements as well as for its own marketing purposes.
In order to offer value-for-money comprehensive insurance cover, some of the benefits offered by Allianz Travel are provided by legally independent compa- nies both domestically and abroad. These may be Allianz Group companies or cooperation partners. For the purposes of fulfilling its contractual obligations, Allianz Travel must exchange data both within and outside the group.
Allianz Travel stores data electronically or physically in compliance with the legal provisions.
Persons whose data is processed by Allianz Travel have the right, in accord- ance with the Data Protection Act (DPA), to ask what data concerning them Allianz Travel actually processes; they may also request the rectification of incorrect data.
Table of benefits


Insurance components (Indemnity insurances)
	

Insured benefits
	

Maximum insured amount
	A
	Cancellation costs
	Assumption of cancellation costs in the event of cancellation of the trip or assumption of additional travel costs in the event of a delayed start to the trip.
	per event
	in accordance with policy
	B
	Medical assistance
	Organisation and assumption of the costs of transfer to the nearest hospital, repatriation to a hospital near the place of residence, the extra return journey without medical accompaniment, supervision of any accompanying minors or the hospital visit for another person. The sum insured is limited for some benefits.
	per event
	unlimited
	C
	Travel assistance
	Organisation and assumption of the costs of the extra return jour- ney, temporary return journey or onward journey.
The sum insured is limited for some benefits.
	per event
	unlimited
	D
	Assistance in the event of death
	Organisation and assumption of the costs of cremation and return of the coffin or urn,
or assumption of the costs for accommodation for accompanying persons in the event of local burial.
	per event per event
	unlimited CHF 300
	E
	Search and rescue costs
	Assumption of search and rescue costs.
	per event
	CHF 30,000
	F
	Flight delay
	Assumption of the additional costs for hotel, rebooking and tele- phone calls.
	per event
	CHF 2,000
	G
	Pupil and student protection
	Assumption of cancellation costs in the event of cancellation of the trip or organisation and assumption of the costs for the extra return journey.
	per event
	in accordance with policy
	

Table of service features excluding assumption of costs


H Service components
	Service features
	1        Travel hotline
	Telephone information regarding travel rules, arrangement of hospitals, doctors and legal assistance abroad and advice in relation to medical or everyday problems during the trip.
	2        24h medical advisory service
	Telephone information for minor medical problems during the trip.
	3        Advance payment to a hospital
	Advance payment in the event of hospitalisation outside the country of residence.
	4        Credit and customer card blocking service
	Blocking of bank, post office, credit and customer cards.
	5        Home care
	Forwarding the telephone numbers of tradesmen in the event of an emergency situation at the person’s place of residence.
	

Contact address for complaints


Allianz Travel Complaint Management Richtiplatz 1
P.O. Box
8304 Wallisellen
General terms and conditions of insurance (GTC)
The insurance cover provided by AWP P&C S.A. Saint-Ouen (Paris), Wallisellen Branch (Switzerland), hereinafter referred to as Allianz Travel, is defined in the insurance policy and the following General terms and conditions of insurance (GTC).
1. Common provisions to all insurance components        5
2. Special provisions for the individual insurance components        6
1. Cancellation costs        6
2. Medical assistance        7
3. Travel assistance        8
4. Assistance in the event of death        9
5. Search and rescue costs        9
6. Flight delay        10
7. Pupil and student protection        10
3. Special provisions relating to the individual service components        11
8. Overview of services excluding assumption of costs        11




9. Common provisions to all insurance components
The Common provisions to all insurance components only apply insofar as the Special provisions for the individual insurance or service components contain no provisions to the contrary.


   1. Insured persons  




   1. The person(s) listed in the insurance policy is/are covered. If a family insurance policy is taken out, all persons living in the same household and their minor children not living in the same household are covered, provided these are accompanying an insured person and their permanent place of residence is in Switzerland. Secure Trip Junior cover is only available to persons up to their 26th birthday.
   2. Persons with permanent residence in Switzerland are insured under section I 1.1.


   2. Geographical scope  




Unless otherwise specified in the Special provisions for the individual insurance or service components, the insurance applies worldwide or in Europe depending on the nature of the insurance or in compliance with the insurance policy details.


      3. Extension of the insurance cover  




         3. Annual insurance applies for one year from the inception date given in the insurance policy. Unless otherwise specified in section I 3.2, it is extended automatically by a year every year, provided the policyholder or Allianz Travel does not issue notice in text form (e.g. letter, e-mail) three months in advance of the insurance expiry date.
         4. If the policyholder moves abroad during the contract term, the contract will lapse on the expiry date following the change of domicile. From the date of changing domicile, the insurance cover only applies for trips booked in Switzerland until the insurance expiry date.


         4. Non-insured events and benefits  
________________






            5. Events in countries or regions to which the Swiss authorities (Federal Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA, Federal Office of Public Health FOPH or World Health Organization WHO) have already advised against travel at the time of booking the trip are not insured.
            6. The consequences of events associated with official instructions, e.g. airport/airspace closures, roadblocks, quarantine measures (except as expressly covered under section II A: Cancellation costs and section II C: Travel assistance), police measures, decrees etc., are not insured.
            7. Travel for the purpose of medical treatment is not insured.
            8. Events are not insured where the assessor (expert, doctor etc.) directly benefits or is related, including by marriage, to the insured person.
            9. Events are not insured where economic, trade or financial sanctions or embargoes imposed by Switzerland are directly applicable to the contracting parties and exclude the insurance cover. That extends to economic, trade or financial sanctions or embargoes imposed by the United Nations, European Union or United States of America, provided they are not in opposition to Swiss legislation.
            10. Activities related to an insured event are not insured, e.g. the cost of replacing the insured items or for law enforcement purposes.
            11. Costs related to kidnappings are not insured.


            5. Duties in the event of a claim


  



            5. The insured person is obliged to do everything to mitigate the loss and help resolve the claim.
            6. The insured person is obliged to observe his/her contractual or legal reporting, notification and conduct-related duties in full (e.g. immedi- ately reporting the insured event to the contact address given in Section I 13).
            7. If the loss occurred due to illness or an accident, the insured person must ensure that the attending doctors are released from their duty of confidentiality vis-à-vis Allianz Travel.
            8. If the insured person is also able to claim benefits paid out by Allianz Travel from third parties, the insured person must uphold these claims and cede them to Allianz Travel.
            9. The claims forms are available on our website: www.allianz-travel.ch/claims


            6. Breach of duties


            1. An event is not insured if it has already occurred when the policy is taken out, the trip is booked or the pre-booked service begins or if its occurrence was foreseeable for the insured person when the policy was taken out, the trip was booked or the pre-booked service began.
            2. Events are not insured, which the insured person has triggered in the following ways:
            * abuse of alcohol, drugs or medicines;
            * suicide or attempted suicide;
            * participation in strikes or unrest;
            * participation in races, training sessions or other types of driving on race or training tracks;
            * participation in hazardous activities whereby the insured person knowingly exposes himself or herself to danger, such as diving to depths of more than 40 m, canyoning, bungee jumping or paraglid- ing as well as climbing, mountaineering, mountain tours at altitudes of 5,000 m or higher or participation in expeditions etc.;
            * negligent or premeditated actions/or failure to act;
            * committing or attempting to commit crimes or offences.
            3. The following events and their consequences are not insured: war, terror attacks, any type of unrest, natural catastrophes and incidents involving atomic, biological or chemical substances.
            4. The following events and their consequences are not insured: epidem- ics and pandemics, except as expressly covered under section II A: Cancellation costs, section II B: Medical assistance and section II C: Travel assistance.
________________


  



If the entitled person is in breach of his/her obligations, Allianz Travel can withhold or reduce the benefits.


            7. Definitions


  



            10. Closely related persons Closely related persons are:
            * relatives (spouse, parents, children, parents-in-law, grandparents and brothers and sisters);
            * life partners including their parents and children;
            * carers of non-travelling minors or relatives in need of care;
            * very close friends with whom there is very close contact.
            11. Switzerland
The territory of Switzerland for the purpose of insurance cover includes Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein.
            12. Europe
Europe includes all countries on the European continent and the Mediterranean, plus the Canary Islands, Madeira and those countries bordering the Mediterranean and outside Europe. The eastern border to the north of Turkey encompasses Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia and the Ural mountain range.
            13. Journey
A journey is a stay of over one day outside the person's normal place of residence or a stay of shorter duration at a location at least 30 km from the person's legal residence discounting routes to work. The max- imum duration of a journey is a total of 365 days.
            14. Travel companies
Travel companies (tour operators, travel agents, airline companies, car hire companies, hotels, course organisers etc.) include all companies involved in providing a travel-related service to the insured person on a contractual basis.
            15. Public transport
Public transport is any means of transport running regularly according to a timetable and requiring a travel ticket. Taxis, rental cars and aero- planes do not count as public transport.
            16. Serious illness / serious accident
Illness or accidents are considered serious if they result in a temporary or permanent inability to work or an inability to travel.
            17. Epidemic
A contagious disease recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO) or an official government authority in the insured person’s coun- try of residence or trip destination.
            18. Pandemic
An epidemic that is recognized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization (WHO) or an official government authority in the insured person’s country of residence or trip destination.
            19. Quarantine
Mandatory confinement (including ordered isolation), intended to stop the spread of a contagious disease to which the insured person or a travelling companion has been exposed.
            20. Personal accident
An accident is the sudden, unintended detrimental outcome of an unusual external factor on the human body.
            21. Motor vehicle accident
An accident is any damage to the insured motor vehicle resulting from a sudden and violent external event making any further use thereof impossible or illegal. That includes in particular events resulting from impact, such as collision, overturning, crashing, subsidence and immersion.
            22. Breakdown
A breakdown means any sudden and unforeseen failure of the insured vehicle as a result of an electrical or mechanical defect that makes it impossible to continue the journey or that means continuing the journey is no longer permitted by law. The following are equivalent to a breakdown: tyre defect, fuel shortage, vehicle key locked inside the vehicle or flat battery. Loss of or damage to the car key or using the wrong type of fuel does not qualify as a breakdown and is not insured.
            23. Natural catastrophe
________________
            9. Multiple insurance and claims against third parties


  



            1. In the event of (voluntary or mandatory) multiple insurance, Allianz Travel provides its benefits in a subsidiary capacity, subject to there being an identical clause in the other insurance contract. In such a case the legal provisions of double insurance apply.
            2. If an insured person is entitled to benefits under any other (voluntary or mandatory) insurance contract, cover is restricted to that part of the Allianz Travel benefits that exceeds the cover provided under the other insurance contract. Overall costs are reimbursed once only.
            3. If Allianz Travel provides benefits in spite of a subsidiarity situation, these benefits count as an advance and the insured person or benefi- ciary will cede his/her claims against the third party (voluntary or man- datory insurance) to Allianz Travel to the extent of those benefits.
            4. If the insured or entitled person has been compensated by a liable third party or the third party's insurer, any compensation due under this contract is rendered void. If a claim is made against Allianz Travel instead of the liable party, the insured or entitled person must concede his/her liability claims up to the extent of the compensation received from Allianz Travel.


            10. Limitation period


  



Claims under the insurance contract expire five years after the occur- rence of the event giving rise to the obligation to pay benefits.


            11. Place of jurisdiction and applicable law


  



            5. Lawsuits against Allianz Travel may be brought before the court at the company’s registered office or at the Swiss place of residence of the insured or entitled person.
            6. The Swiss Insurance Contract Act (ICA) applies in addition to these provisions.


            12. Hierarchy of regulations


  



            7. The Special provisions for the individual insurance components take precedence over the Common provisions to all insurance components.
            8. In the event of linguistic differences between the French, Italian, English and German GTC, the German version will always apply where any doubt exists.


            13. Contact address
Extremely serious natural event directly causing at the location affected                  by the event, the death of a significant number of people and devastat-
ing material damage to public infrastructure.
            24. Natural hazards
Natural hazards are losses stemming from natural events, such as high water, flooding, storm (winds of at least 75 km/h), hail, avalanche, snow pressure, rockfall, rockslide or landslide. Losses from earthquake or volcanic eruption do not count as natural hazards.
            25. Official instruction
An official instruction is a public directive issued by an authority (at federal, canton or municipal level) for the attention of a natural person or legal entity, to behave (by way of action, tolerance or forbearance) in a specific manner. This includes, for example, airport/airspace closures, roadblocks, quarantine measures, police measures and decrees etc.
            26. Monetary value
________________
Allianz Travel
Richtiplatz 1
P.O. Box
8304 Wallisellen info.ch@allianz.com


II        Special provisions for the individual insurance components


            1. Cancellation costs
            1. Insured amount
Monetary value covers cash, credit cards, securities, savings accounts,                  precious metals (inventories, bars or merchandise), coins, medals,
loose precious stones and pearls.
            27. Mobile devices
Electronic devices for mobile, network-independent data, language and picture communication and navigation, which are suitable for mobile use without causing any significant physical exertion due to their size and weight. Mobile telephones, tablets and laptops count as mobile devices for the purposes of these GTC.


8 Premium adjustment  




Allianz Travel reserves the right to adjust premiums for annual insurance policies and is accordingly entitled to request an amendment of the insurance contract. In this case, Allianz Travel will inform the policyholder of the premium adjustment in writing at least 30 days before it comes into effect. The policyholder has the right to terminate the contract with effect from when the premium adjustment would apply. The policyholder’s termination of cover is valid, provided it is received by Allianz Travel no later than the last day before the premium adjustment comes into force.
________________
The insured amount is specified in the insurance policy.


            2. Duration of cover


  



Insurance cover incepts on the date given in the insurance policy and ends with the start of the insured trip. The start of the trip is when the insured person enters the reserved means of transport or the reserved accommodation (hotel, holiday apartment etc.), if no means of transport was reserved.


            3. Insured events


  



            1. Serious illness, serious accident, death, complications of pregnancy
            1. Serious illness (including being diagnosed with an epidemic or a pan- demic disease such as e. g. COVID-19), serious accident, complica- tions of pregnancy or the death of one of the following persons, provided the event concerned has occurred after the relevant booking was made or insurance was taken out:
            * the insured person;
            * a closely related person who booked the same event and can- celled;
            * a non-travelling person who is closely related to the insured person;
            * the deputy at work, provided the insured person's presence is indispensable.
If a number of insured persons have booked the same trip, it can be cancelled for a maximum of six persons if an accompanying insured person cancels the trip due to one of the above events.
            2. For mental illness, insurance cover only applies if
            * a psychiatrist confirms an inability to work and travel and
            * the inability to work is documented by a certificate of absence sup- plied by the employer.
            3. Chronic illness is only covered by the insurance if the trip has to be cancelled due to a medically documented, unexpected, acute
________________
            2. Delayed departure
If the insured person starts the trip late due to an insured event, instead of paying the cancellation costs, Allianz Travel will pay (up to the amount equivalent to the cancellation costs):
            * the additional travel costs arising from the delayed departure;
            * the costs for the unused portion of the stay, pro rata to the insured price of the trip (without transport costs); the departure day counts as a used travel day.
            3. Cover for tickets to events
If the insured person is unable to use a ticket to an event due to an insured occurrence, the associated costs are covered. The definition of a journey under section I 7.4 does not apply.
            4. Expenses incurred for disproportionate or recurrent handling charges or insurance premiums are not reimbursed.


            5. Non-insured events and benefits (in addition to section I 4)
deterioration. Cover is contingent on the person being able to travel at                  time of booking or taking out the insurance and demonstrably being in
a stable state of health.
            2. Pregnancy
In the event of the insured or an accompanying person becoming pregnant, insurance cover only applies if this occurred after the trip was booked or the insurance was taken out and the date of the return journey is after the 24th week of pregnancy or if the pregnancy occurred subsequent to booking the trip or concluding the insurance and a vaccination was required for the destination, which would pose a risk to the unborn child.
            3. Quarantine
If the insured person or a travelling companion is quarantined before their trip by order or other requirement of a government or public authority, based on their suspicion that the insured person or a travelling companion, specifically, has been exposed to a contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as e. g. COVID-19). This does not include any quarantine that applies generally or broadly to some or all of a population or geographical area, or that applies based on where the person is travelling to, from or through.
            4. Damage to property at the place of residence
If the insured person's property is seriously damaged at his/her place of residence due to theft, fire, water or natural hazards and he/she has to be present at home as a result.
            5. Delay or lack of public transport for the outward journey
If the booked trip cannot begin due to the delay or cancellation of the public transport used for the outward journey to the starting point arranged for travel purposes.
            6. Failure of vehicle on the outward journey as a result of breakdown or accident
If the private vehicle or taxi used for the outward journey to the starting point arranged for travel purposes becomes unusable due to a break- down or accident during the actual journey. Problems with keys and fuel are not insured.
            7. Strike
If a strike (excluding strikes by the travel company or its service provid- ers) makes the trip impossible.
            8. Danger at the destination
If war, terror attacks or unrest of any kind at the destination place the insured person’s life in danger and if an official Swiss entity (Federal Department of Foreign Affairs) advises against travel to the destination in question.
            9. Natural catastrophe
If a natural catastrophe at the destination places the insured person's life in danger.
            10. Unemployment / unexpected assumption of employment
If the insured person has unexpectedly taken up employment within the 30 days prior to departure or if the unexpected assumption of employ- ment occurs during the time of the trip, or if the insured person, through no fault of his/her own, has his/her employment terminated within the 30 days prior to departure.
            11. Official summons
If the insured person is unexpectedly summoned as a witness or juror in court. The court date must be during the time of the trip.
            12. Theft of passport or ID card
If the insured person's passport or identity card is stolen just before the trip and, as a result, the insured person is unable to travel. Note: there are emergency passport offices at some airports.


4 Insured benefits
________________
            1. If an illness or the consequences of an accident, an operation or a med-
ical intervention had already occurred by the time the trip was booked or the insurance was concluded and have failed to heal by the travel date. If convalescence from an operation/medical intervention, which was already planned at the time the trip was booked or the insurance was concluded but only performed afterwards, is not complete by the departure date.
            2. If an event listed under section II A 3.1 and II A 3.2 was not immediately diagnosed by a doctor and documented by a doctor’s report at the time of occurrence.
            3. If the travel company cannot provide contractually agreed services or is unable to do so in full, cancels the trip or would have to cancel it due to specific circumstances. Specific circumstances necessitating cancella- tion of the trip include (inter alia) recommendations by the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs not to travel to the area in question.
            4. If official instructions render the planned completion of the booked journey impossible, except as expressly covered under section II A 3.3.
            5. Cancellation costs are not insured if the cancellation, depending on circumstances, arises from a psychological reaction to a health hazard, act of terror, aircraft accident or natural catastrophe or due to fear of civil unrest, acts of war, acts of terror or aviophobia (fear of flying).


            6. Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)


  



            6. In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately cancel the service booked with the travel company or accommodation provider on occurrence of the insured event.
            7. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
            * claims forms are available on our website: www.allianz-travel.ch/claims
            * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
            * invoice of cancellation costs;
            * booking confirmation;
            * documents and/or official attestations documenting the occurrence of the loss event (e.g. detailed medical certificate with diagnosis, employer attestation, police report etc.).


            2. Medical assistance
            1. Insured amount


  



The insured amount can be seen in the table of benefits.


            2. Insured events


  



Serious illness, serious accident, complications of pregnancy or unex- pected worsening of a chronic illness
If during the trip the insured person suffers a serious illness (including being diagnosed with an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as e. g. COVID-19), a serious accident, complications of pregnancy or a medi- cally certified, unexpected worsening of a chronic illness.


            3. Insured benefits


  
          


4.1 Cancellation costs
If the insured person cancels the contract with the travel company due to an insured event, Allianz Travel will pay the contractual cancellation costs owed up to the agreed insured amount. Any costs invoiced to the insured person for rebooking services prior to the cancellation will only be assumed if the rebooking is due to an insured event as defined under section II A 3. There is no compensation for costs, fees or credit reduc- tions resulting from the loss or forfeiture of air miles, prize awards or other rights of use (time-sharing etc.).
________________
In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assistance measures or the assumption of associated costs. Regarding medical benefits, only Allianz Travel doctors can decide about the nature and time of any measure taken and whether it is necessary. The Allianz Travel emergency call centre is available around the clock (con- versations with the emergency call centre are recorded):


Telephone        +41 44 202 00 00
Fax        +41 44 283 33 33
If, during a trip, the insured person has to terminate, interrupt or extend the booked trip as a result of an insured event, Allianz Travel will as- sume the following costs:


            1. Transfer to the nearest suitable hospital
Organisation and assumption of the costs of transfer to the nearest hospital suitable for treatment based on relevant medical findings.
            2. Medically supervised repatriation to a hospital at the place of residence Organisation and assumption of the costs of a medically supervised repatriation to a hospital suitable for treatment at the place of residence of the insured person if this is necessary for medical reasons.
            3. Extra return journey to the place of residence without medical accom- paniment
Organisation and assumption of the costs of an extra return journey as a result of medical findings, without accompaniment by medical staff to the place of residence of the insured person.
            4. Supervision of accompanying minors
Organisation and assumption of the costs for the outward and return journey of a person (1st class train ticket, economy class flight ticket) to supervise minors who, as a result of a repatriation or extra return journey of both parents or the only parent on the trip to the place of residence, would need to continue the trip alone or return home.
            5. Visit
Organisation and assumption of the costs of a visit (1st class train ticket, economy class flight ticket, middle-class hotel) up to a maximum of CHF 5,000 for up to two closely related persons to visit the insured person in hospital if he/she is hospitalised for more than seven days or is in a critical condition abroad.
            6. Unused part of the trip
If the insured person has to terminate the trip prematurely due to an insured event, the costs for the unused part of the trip will be reimbursed pro rata to the price of the insured arrangement. The compensation is limited to the amount given in the insurance policy. If this detail is not provided, compensation is limited to the amount of the insured cancel- lation costs. There is no reimbursement for the cost of the originally booked return journey or for the unused and originally booked accom- modation, provided Allianz Travel assumes the cost of the replacement accommodation.
            7. Unforeseen expenses
Assumption of the additional costs up to a total of CHF 1,500 per in- sured person if unforeseen expenses (taxi fares, costs of accommoda- tion and telephone calls etc.) are incurred in connection with an insured event. These limits include an additional compensation limit of a maxi- mum of CHF 200 for the costs of telephone calls.
            8. Additional communication costs in the event of a delayed return journey Assumption of any additional communication costs incurred (tele- phone/data package) up to a maximum of a further CHF 150 per event if the insured person has to extend the trip due to an insured event.


            4. Non-insured events and benefits (in addition to section I 4)
  



            1. If the Allianz Travel emergency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance.
            2. If the insured person has travelled against advice in connection with an epidemic/pandemic of their home country’s government or of local au- thority at their trip destination.
            3. Costs for outpatient or inpatient treatment.
            4. Cost of meals, lost working time and other financial loss.


            5. Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)
  



            5. In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assistance measures or assumption of associated costs (see section II B 3).
            6. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
            * claims forms are available on our website: www.allianz-travel.ch/claims
            * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
            * booking confirmation;
            * documents and/or official attestations documenting the occurrence of the loss event (e.g. detailed medical certificate with diagnosis);
            * receipts for unforeseen expenses/additional costs.


C        Travel assistance
1 Insured amount
  



The insured amount can be seen in the table of benefits.
________________
            2. Insured events


  



            1. Serious illness (including being diagnosed with an epidemic or a pan- demic disease such as e. g. COVID-19), serious accident, death, com- plications of pregnancy or the unexpected worsening of a chronic illness during the trip:
            * of an accompanying person;
            * a non-travelling person who is closely related to the insured person;
            * the deputy at work, provided the insured person's presence is in- dispensable.
If the person responsible for the trip being terminated, interrupted or extended due to an insured event is not related to the insured person, including by marriage, there will only be an entitlement to benefit if the latter would have to continue the trip alone (applies to a return journey due to termination of an accompanying person's trip).
            2. Damage to property at the place of residence
If the insured person's property is seriously damaged at his/her place of residence due to theft, fire, water or natural hazards and he/she has to be present at home as a result.
            3. Quarantine
If the insured person or a travelling companion is quarantined during their trip by order or other requirement of a government or public authority, based on their suspicion that the insured person or a travelling companion, specifically, has been exposed to a contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as e. g. COVID-19). This does not include any quarantine that applies generally or broadly to some or all of a population or geographical area, or that applies based on where the person is travelling to, from or through.
            4. Denied transportation on the onward or return journey or denied entry on suspicion of illness
If the insured person or a travelling companion during their trip is denied transportation or entry on the suspicion that the insured person or a travelling companion is suffering from a contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as e. g. COVID-19). This does not include refusals that are due to the insured person or a person travelling with the insured person having disregarded or having failed to comply with applicable travel and/or entry regulations, or refusals that are due to general travel and/or entry restrictions.
            5. Danger at the destination
If it can be proven that unrest, terror attacks or natural catastrophes at the destination make it impossible to continue the trip or represent an actual risk to the life or property of the insured person.
            6. Strike
If it can be proven that a strike (excluding a strike by the travel company or its service providers) makes it impossible for the insured person to continue the trip to the destination.
            7. Cancellation of public transport as a result of breakdown or accident
If the public transport booked or used for the trip is cancelled as a result of a breakdown or an accident so there is no guarantee the trip of the insured person can continue as planned. Delays or detours of the booked or used public transport do not count as cancellation.
            8. Impact of document theft
If theft of personal documents (passport, ID card, travel tickets or ac- commodation vouchers) makes it temporarily impossible for the insured person to continue the trip or make the return journey to Switzerland.


            3. Insured benefits


  



In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assis- tance measures or the assumption of associated costs. The Allianz Travel emergency call centre is available around the clock (conversa- tions with the emergency call centre are recorded):


Telephone        +41 44 202 00 00
Fax        +41 44 283 33 33


If, during a trip, the insured person has to terminate, interrupt or extend the booked trip as a result of an insured event, Allianz Travel will as- sume the following costs:


            9. Extra return journey in the event of the trip being terminated prematurely or a return journey being delayed
Organisation and assumption of the additional costs for the extra return journey (1st class train ticket, economy class flight ticket) to the place of residence of the insured person or if and where appropriate and reasonable, the transport costs for continuing the journey.
            10. Temporary return journey
Organisation and assumption of the costs of a temporary return journey to the place of residence of the insured person due to an event as per section II C 2.1 or II C 2.2. Expenses for the unused part of the trip are not reimbursed.
            11. Additional costs in the event of document theft
Organisation and assumption of the additional costs for the stay (hotel, local transport costs and additional costs for the return journey) up to a maximum of CHF 2,000 per event in the event of the theft of personal documents so that it is temporarily impossible to continue the trip or make the return journey to Switzerland. The theft must be reported to the relevant police force immediately. No compensation is available for other unforeseen expenses.
            12. Unused part of the trip
If the insured person has to terminate the trip prematurely due to an insured event, the costs for the unused part of the trip will be reimbursed pro rata to the price of the insured arrangement. The compensation is limited to the amount given in the insurance policy. If this detail is not provided, compensation is limited to the amount of the insured cancel- lation costs. There is no reimbursement for the cost of the originally booked return journey or for the unused and originally booked accom- modation, provided Allianz Travel assumes the cost of the replacement accommodation.
            13. Unforeseen expenses
Assumption of the additional costs up to a total of CHF 1,500 per in- sured person if unforeseen expenses (taxi fares, costs of accommoda- tion and telephone calls etc.) are incurred in connection with an insured event. These limits include an additional compensation limit of a maxi- mum of CHF 200 for the costs of telephone calls.


            4. Non-insured events and benefits (in addition to section I 4)
  



            14. If the Allianz Travel emergency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance.
            15. If the travel company does not provide contractually agreed services or is unable to do so in full, terminates the trip or would have to cancel or terminate it due to specific circumstances. Specific circumstances necessitating cancellation or abandonment of the trip include recommendations by the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs not to travel to the area in question.
            16. If the insured person has travelled against advice in connection with an epidemic/pandemic of their home country’s government or of local au- thority at their trip destination.
            17. If official instructions render the planned completion of the booked journey impossible, except as expressly covered under section II C 2.3.
            18. Cost of meals, lost working time and other financial loss.


            5. Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)
  



            19. In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assistance measures or assumption of associated costs (see section II C 3).
            20. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
            * claims forms are available on our website: www.allianz-travel.ch/claims
            * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
            * booking confirmation;
            * documents and/or official attestations documenting the occurrence of the loss event (e.g. detailed medical certificate with diagnosis, employer attestation, police report etc.);
            * receipts for unforeseen expenses/additional costs.


D        Assistance in the event of death
            1. Insured amount
  



The insured amount can be seen in the table of benefits.


            2. Insured event
________________
If an insured person dies during the trip, Allianz Travel will provide one of the following benefits (section II D 3.1 or II D 3.2):


            1. Return transport in the event of death
Organisation and assumption of the costs of cremation (including urn) outside the country of residence or of the costs of a coffin in accordance with the minimum requirements of the international Agreement on the Transfer of Corpses (zinc coffin or lining) as well as the costs of return- ing the coffin or urn to the last place of residence of the insured person. Disposal of the lead coffin is also covered.
            2. Additional costs for accompanying person in the event of local burial Assumption of the costs of accommodation for accompanying persons to the place of burial up to a maximum of CHF 300 per event. No com- pensation is available for any other costs.
            3. Unused part of the trip
If the insured person dies during the trip, the costs for the unused part of the trip will be reimbursed pro rata to the price of the insured arrangement. The compensation is limited to the amount given in the insurance policy. If this detail is not provided, compensation is limited to the amount of the insured cancellation costs. The costs of the return journey originally booked are not reimbursed.


            4. Non-insured events and benefits (in addition to section I 4)


  



If the Allianz Travel emergency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance.


            5. Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)


  



            1. In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assistance measures or assumption of associated costs (see section II D 3).
            2. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
            * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
            * booking confirmation;
            * record of death or certificate of death;
            * receipts for additional costs.


E        Search and rescue costs
            1. Insured amount


  



The insured amount can be seen in the table of benefits.


            2. Temporal and geographical scope


  



The insurance applies for journeys throughout the entire world, with the exception of Switzerland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and the country where the insured person is legally resident.


            3. Insured event


  



If during the trip the insured person is deemed to be missing or needs to be rescued from a physical emergency. The Allianz Travel emer- gency call centre can be contacted around the clock for support (con- versations with the emergency call centre are recorded):


Telephone        +41 44 202 00 00
Fax        +41 44 283 33 33


            4. Insured benefits


  
          


Death of an insured person during the trip.


3        Insured benefits
________________
Assumption of any necessary search and rescue costs.


5        Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)


  
          


In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assis- tance measures or the assumption of associated costs. The Allianz Travel emergency call centre is available around the clock (conversa- tions with the emergency call centre are recorded):


Telephone        +41 44 202 00 00
Fax        +41 44 283 33 33
________________
            1. In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must report the insured event or claim event in writing to Allianz Travel.
            2. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
            * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
            * documents and/or official attestations documenting the occurrence of the loss event (e.g. detailed medical certificate with diagnosis);
            * invoice of the rescue company.
            6. Flight delay
            1. Insured amount  




The insured amount can be seen in the table of benefits.


               2. Insured event  




If a connecting flight is missed due to a delay of at least three hours for which the first airline is solely responsible.


                  3. Insured benefits  
________________
                     2. Termination of a trip
                     1. Unexpected cancellation of the stay by the host family, provided the individually booked stay, i.e. not through an organiser, was confirmed in writing when the insurance was taken out.
                     2. Unexpected cancellation of study courses, work experience, research or seminars abroad confirmed in writing, provided the study courses, work experience, research or seminars had been confirmed in writing at the time of taking out the insurance and the cancellation was through no fault of the person in question.
                     3. Homesickness, provided the homesickness is confirmed in writing by a psychologist.


                     4. Insured benefits


  





Assumption of the additional costs (hotel, rebooking, telephone calls) involved in continuing the trip. This benefit is provided as a follow-up to the services provided by the airline.


                     4. Non-insured events (in addition to section I 4)  




                        1. If the airline does not provide contractually agreed services or is unable to do so in full, terminates the trip or would have to cancel or terminate it due to specific circumstances.
                        2. If the insured person is responsible for the delay.


                        5. Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)  




                           3. In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must report the insured event or claim event in writing to Allianz Travel.
                           4. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
                           * claims forms are available on our website: www.allianz-travel.ch/claims
                           * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
                           * booking confirmation;
________________


                           1. Cancellation costs
If the insured person cancels the contract with the travel company due to an insured event, Allianz Travel will pay the contractual cancellation costs owed up to the agreed insured amount. Any costs invoiced to the insured person for rebooking services prior to the cancellation will only be assumed if the rebooking is due to an insured event as defined under section II G 3.1. There is no compensation for costs, fees or credit re- ductions resulting from the loss or forfeiture of air miles, prize awards or other rights of use (time-sharing etc.).
                           2. Termination of a trip
In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured person must imme- diately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any measures or the assumption of associated costs. The Allianz Travel emergency call centre is available around the clock (conversations with the emergency call centre are recorded):


Telephone        +41 44 202 00 00
Fax        +41 44 283 33 33


                           1. Extra return journey in the event of a trip being terminated prematurely Organisation and assumption of the costs of the extra return journey (1st class train ticket, economy class flight ticket) for the insured person to their legal residence.


                           5. Non-insured events and benefits (in addition to section I 4)
                           * evidence of delay from the airline incl. details of the duration of the                  delay and any compensation received;
                           * receipts for additional costs.


                           7. Pupil and student protection
                           1. Insured amount  




The insured amount can be seen in the table of benefits.


                              2. Insured persons  




Persons as per section I 1 are insured up to their 26th birthday.


                                 3. Insured events  




                                    1. Cancellation before departure
                                    1. Insurance cover incepts on the date given in the insurance policy and ends with the start of the insured trip. The start of the trip is when the insured person enters the reserved means of transport or the reserved accommodation (hotel, holiday apartment etc.), if no means of transport was reserved.
                                    2. Failure to move up a year and definitive departure from the class prior to the start of the insured trip, e.g. because of changing school or failure to move up a year, provided the trip was booked prior to gaining knowledge of this fact and the trip has become infeasible or impossible.
                                    3. Resitting of a failed exam while attending school, vocational college or university, provided the trip was booked prior to the original exam date and the date of the resit unexpectedly clashes with the insured trip or is due to take place within 14 days of the trip's scheduled conclusion.
                                    4. Unexpected cancellation of the stay by the host family, provided the stay was confirmed in writing when the insurance was taken out.
                                    5. Unexpected cancellation of study courses, work experience, research or seminars abroad confirmed in writing, provided the study courses, work experience, research or seminars had been confirmed in writing at the time of taking out the insurance and the cancellation was through no fault of the person in question.
________________
                                    1. If official instructions render the planned completion of the booked journey impossible.
                                    2. Cancellation costs are not insured if the cancellation, depending on circumstances, arises from a psychological reaction to a health hazard, act of terror, aircraft accident or natural catastrophe or due to fear of civil unrest, acts of war, acts of terror or aviophobia (fear of flying).
                                    3. If the Allianz Travel emergency call centre has not agreed to the benefits in advance in the event of termination of a trip in accordance with section II G 4.2.
                                    4. If the travel company does not provide contractually agreed services or is unable to do so in full, terminates the trip or would have to cancel or terminate it due to specific circumstances. Specific circumstances ne- cessitating cancellation or abandonment of the trip include recommen- dations by the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs not to travel to the area in question.


                                    6. Duties in the event of a claim (in addition to section I 5)


  



                                    1. In the event of cancellation: In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately cancel the service booked with the travel company or accommodation provider on occurrence of the insured event.
                                    2. In the event of travel interruption: In order to claim Allianz Travel benefits, the insured or entitled person must immediately inform the Allianz Travel emergency call centre on occurrence of the insured event and obtain its agreement for any assistance measures or the assumption of associated costs (see section II G 4.2).
                                    3. In the event of a claim, Allianz Travel must be sent the following docu- ments in writing (see section I 13):
                                    * claims forms are available on our website: www.allianz-travel.ch/claims
                                    * proof of insurance or copy of the policy;
                                    * invoice of cancellation costs;
                                    * booking confirmation;
                                    * documents and/or official attestations documenting the occurrence of the loss event (e.g. detailed medical certificate with diagnosis etc.);
                                    * receipts for unforeseen expenses/additional costs.
III        Special provisions relating to the individual service components


                                    8. Overview of services excluding assumption of costs
                                    1. Travel hotline
________________
be hospitalised outside their country of residence, Allianz Travel will make an advance payment of up to CHF 5,000 towards hospital costs where necessary. Allianz Travel must be reimbursed for the advance payment within 30 days of leaving the hospital.


4        Credit and customer card blocking service


  



  





                                    1. Information regarding travel rules
Prior to departure, Allianz Travel will issue the insured person with key information on entry requirements, fees, customs regulations, current- cies and health provisions upon request.
                                    2. Sourcing of hospitals and doctors abroad
Allianz Travel will find for the insured person, if necessary, a corre- spondence doctor or hospital in the place where they are staying. In the event of communication problems, Allianz Travel will provide translation support.
                                    3. Sourcing of legal assistance
During the trip, Allianz Travel will provide the insured person with the name, address, telephone number and, assuming the insured person wants these and the details are known, the opening hours of solicitors or legal experts. Allianz Travel will not give the insured person any legal advice and will not meet the costs of solicitors or other legal advice or any associated costs for which the insured person alone is liable.
                                    4. Advisory service for problems during the trip
Allianz Travel will advise the insured person in relation to minor medical and everyday problems during the trip.
                                    5. Notification service for relatives and employers
If Allianz Travel organises measures, it will inform the relatives and
________________
The insured person can request assistance in the event of robbery, theft, loss or misplacement of bank, post office, credit and customer cards and personal ID issued in Switzerland in their name. Allianz Travel will attempt to block all specified cards with the corresponding institutions (card company, bank, post office etc.). If the block is not performed by an institution responsible, Allianz Travel will inform the insured person accordingly and provide him or her with the telephone number for the institution.


                                    5. Home care


  



If, during the trip, there is an emergency at the insured person’s permanent residence in Switzerland and this is due to fire, a natural event, break-in, water-related events or glass breakage, Allianz Travel will provide the insured person with the telephone number of a suitable tradesman. The tradesman will be commissioned by the insured person and perform immediate work to ensure there is no further loss. The costs for the emergency rectification of the loss must be borne by the insured person. The insured person receives the invoice directly from the tradesman.


                                    6. Contact for services
employer of the insured person where necessary about the facts of the                  case and the measures taken.


2        24h medical advisory service  




Allianz Travel will support the insured person in relation to minor medi- cal and everyday problems during the trip:
                                    * computer-assisted triage for acute symptoms featuring advice on the urgency for treatment;
________________
In order to claim the services listed under section III H 1 up to III H 5, the insured person may call the following numbers around the clock, 365 days a year, both before and during the trip:


Telephone        +41 44 202 00 00
Fax        +41 44 283 33 33


                                    7. Liability
                                    * advice on questions related to symptoms of illness, progression of                  a disease, therapies and prevention – in the broadest sense relat-
ing to health and illness.


3        Advance payment to a hospital  


If the insured person experiences a serious illness, a serious accident, complications associated with pregnancy or a medically confirmed, unexpected worsening of a chronic condition during the trip and needs to
________________
Allianz Travel is not liable for:
                                    * financial and consequential losses or any health impairments re- sulting from the information associated with the respective ser- vices;
                                    * losses arising due to problems reaching the relevant service providers or institutions or losses or consequential losses arising during and after their work;
                                    * financial losses arising from the loss of credit, bank or post office cards.